I don't know if any doctrine and Anglo-Saxon law
where an individual comes into court and has an affirmative case, Mr. Brian,
I'm not talking about negative allegations, but has an affirmative case to prove
and then a motion is passed denying the individual or individuals the right to be heard.
Now, one last thing, mention and reference has been made to the executive order
that it stops Mr. Hintzol, the side of this controversy.
May I just read the last paragraph of the president's order?
The last paragraph, and I quote, from the president's letter to the secretary of the defense.
By the effect, I am not in any way restricting the testimony of such witnesses
as to what occurred regarding any matters where the communication was directly
between any of the principles to the controversy.
Within the executive branch on the one hand, any member of the subcommittee or staff on the other.
And I think that last paragraph of the presidential directive certainly makes it possible
for full testimony to be heard.
I want to say to the chairman that I shall not vote for a motion in this hearing at any time,
which deny the right to any principle to this controversy.
Who has made affirmative charges against another principle or principle.
It is in the grossest violation, Mr. Byron of all Anglo-Saxon law,
and if I might supplement it with just plain common sense.
I say first before he recognizes anybody else,
because the only way he can get a chance to say anything is to move in once in a while.
He has no face to appeal to the floor.
It seems to me that months of this discussion of the Jackson has gotten beside the point.
The plain here in this case, or the person presenting the charges in the original instance,
was certainly not Mr. Hempel.
It was instead some of the McCarthy and those associated with him.
Certainly if they are content not to have the charges,
best it seems to me the committee would be in a most unhappy position
to be trying to pod people into prolonging the hearings
and expanding the number of witnesses
continuing the evidence out in finito modnaudio.
It seems to me that much is certainly clear.
Now with regard to the president's budget,
it says of course that it does not interfere with any of the testimony taking place
between the principles on the members of the committee.
But there is nothing any place thus far in the testimony or in the presentation of charges
indicating Mr. Hempel had any direct communications of any kind with the members of the subcommittee.
It is involved with any of the allegations of motive,
with those which are involved in connection with the January 21st meeting,
all of the other meetings and the consultations between members of the executive department.
Senator Jackson suggested to the chair,
I heed what Secretary Steven said in his testimony.
In his testimony, he was a bit confusing to the mind of the chairman,
as to whether or not he testified that he did or did not give an order
to start off this thing, but he certainly was emphatically repetitious about the fact
that he assumed the responsibility for the launching of these charges,
which obviously goes to the matter of order, and is an additional reason.
While we need not keep Mr. Hempel endlessly away from his duties and understand and in jeopardy,
when even the Secretary of the Army has testified that he was responsible, yet is hit.
Mr. Byte.
I'm sorry to prolong this, Mr. Chairman, but let me say two things.
Number one, I want it clearly understood and plainly understood by the chairman
and all the members of this committee on both sides of the aisle.
But Mr. Hempel will regard to any testimony he might do in his own defense,
if that ever became necessary and believe you me, it never will.
He is not taking advantage of any presidential directive.
I have not remotely suggested that Mr. Hempel is going to take refuge in any presidential directive,
but then indeed you need have no doubt that he will never do so, except in so far as he might at some time be found by the orders of his superior.
Well, that'd be quite plain.
Now, the second thing, the second thing is this.
I still say to those committees that Mr. Hempel will not want anything done here that does not completely indicate him.
I say that he does not want to accept from this committee or any of its members, anything other than complete vindication.
It seems to me the record is such that complete vindication is in order and proper and should be given right now.
And I ask you.
Mr. President.
Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Hempel.
A lot of people think that four to three voting will be complete vindication.
For public servant, I do not agree.
For the first time, I am beginning to worry about whether or not this committee was the right committee before which the charges should have been presented.
I remember that the chairman himself consistently stated that it was not and that he preferred not to be a judge in his case.
I would like to respectfully remind him of that as he could decide to cast his vote.
But I want to say that based on the many years that I spent in the Pentagon, it wouldn't be possible in my opinion for Secretary Hempel to operate on the basis he must operate on in the best interest of the security of the United States unless these charges have brought up.
And therefore, I would like to say with great respect to my colleagues on this committee that if there is to be a whitewashing of these charges and put them under the rug,
for the charges that are even listened to, and before Mr. Hempel who I believe is a great American has the opportunity to answer the charges, I shall take the matter to the floor of the Senate and I shall also recommend to the armed services committee on which I happen to be a member, that the entire matter be investigated in open session before that committee.
I do not know whether there's been another member in the agreement that the Democrats didn't have enough things to know about.
Mr. Shatterdown, but there's no memorandum of agreement as far as I'm concerned that I've read anything about.
All right, I heard of him before and I didn't hear him on the left, was I'm just... I'm just feeling that it seems that I has cast in ring on a vote that's trained by four to three that's where it came at the moment and I just want to say to my colleagues.
But you know, you face a stigma on those who made the charges. Now they want to say to you and take it, no protest. That's all I will need but I'm not going to vote for them.
The second thing I want to say to you, that having made the charges just this insurere assume is a made the charges against Adams and against Secondary Stevens, if they now weaken and take a position, we don't want to prosecute those charges.
They're equally serious if not more so because they say him to inspire it. If they're going to withdraw that, I said, you and I question it, be in this mess that I open the proof.
It's going to have a little influence on me on some other charges, I want you to know that now. I want to say something else and I'll conclude.
I said to this committee once before gentlemen, you have the power to do it. You can do it and you can do it again.
I think you'll make a sad mistake. I just like to make it very clear to the very able center from Arkansas.
That the only reason why I do not protest this is because I have taken the position since the president finally ordered saying that we cannot get the facts about certain meetings, something in order saying that they only executive cannot give us the conversations.
We cannot get to the question of motion. That meeting of January 21st appears to have been the time when the chain of events was set off.
It's culminated in arehensible signing to report. I have to take into position that it's hopeless to try and get at all of the truth.
As I heard of small boys saying once the reason of such animal is half the truth, therefore anything that the committee can do is to eliminate witnesses, to cut us down so we can get back to the work which we should be doing.
Five times concerned it's all right with me.
I'm going to cut down an eliminate that's just that's the whole proceeding. That's one way to go.
This chairman I have never had any doubt that this was the property to investigate his child. If I entertain any doubt on that floor, I would simply fortify my conviction by having resigned from this committee.
That's the easy way for anyone to test his conviction. Mr. Bryan is absolutely correct. If I'm when a hearing or indicate a cloud over an individual, I think it's the responsibility of this committee sitting as judges and as jury to remove that cloud as quickly and as expeditiously as possible, a condition entirely on what has to be allowed here.
And finally let me say Mr. Chairman, I have been intrigued by the solicitude that has been expressed by some about to the senator from Wisconsin.
I've known him a long time and he has been abundantly able to take care of himself under any circumstances. I suggest we vote Mr. Chairman.
I assume that my small voice may be heard at some point here.
I would not have served a great courtesy to me if you would spectrum ocean into two parts because you have in the same audience, a dismissal as to Mr. Hensel and a dismissal as to Mr. Car.
There is no lawyer in the courtrooms. No, I think any human being in the courtroom who does not know that very different considerations apply for those two men.
And indeed all the arguments now has been about whether or not you should dismiss Mr. Hensel and nothing has been said about Mr. Car.
On that point Senator DeVorscheck, I would like to be heard and I would like the two men to be dealt with separately because anyone must conceive the quite different considerations applied as a two.
Would you Senator DeVorscheck do these great courtesy of splitting your motion? I have no right to ask it but I beg you to defame it.
I would like to comply with your request but it seems to me and I am not an attorney. It would seem to me that for 20 days we have been hearing testimony by the Army and no material, two months in submitted which would in any way justify involvement of Mr. Car in these charges of our privacy.
And your fact is enough to know that we must learn from some financial compensating feature.
I want to also stress that we have been here for 20 days and I'm willing to stay another 20 days and get out.
Senator McCarty and Larry Poe and other witnesses on that side take the witness stand. I have no desire as it has been suggested by other members of this subcommittee that we are attempting in any way to put over a sidewalk.
That is not in my mind at this time or any time and I'm willing to stay here for 20 days and listen to the testimony of the other side of this counterfeit.
But it seems to me that it is not within the jurisdiction of this subcommittee to consider the charges of alleged fiscal operations which originally were injected into this case involving Mr. Hengsel.
I think that the senator from his own has indicated that if there is any justifiable ground for a current power of the charges to determine whether they are falsified or true, that jurisdiction might welcome before the Senate committee on force.
I can see a no direct connection between those charges and the jurisdiction of this subcommittee in this specific controversy involving the senator from Wisconsin and his staff and the secretary of the Army and members of his staff.
And so for that reason it seems to me that we would not be accomplishing anything worthwhile if we were to consent to the request that we ask for your request at this time.
I am bitterly disappointed at that because I think it is very confusing to vote on these two matters in the same motion.
I am sure there is some sympathy for me at that side of the table when I find out the difference considerations to the fly.
Yes, the two points I have to be voted on in the single motion.
It then becomes my duty to take what I would estimate to be about ten minutes to find out the senator votes to Varshaq and all of you.
The salient features that seem to me to require a dismissal or a negative vote on this motion in so far as it applies to Mr. Car.
Mr. Chairman, may I have that ten minutes? I think I can do it.
Ten minutes rules, so I think you can.
Chair, I would like to have it as well.
Mr. Wokey will be a little apologize.
Mr. Chairman, I think this whole business is getting silly.
We have three witnesses.
I know no reason why Mr. Car will not be declared innocent of any charges that have been made against him.
I've heard a little about it.
The United States Army is now on trial before the American people and anywhere you cut it, those are the facts.
I must admit that some of the testimony that has come from the head of the Army, the secretary and from his legal advisor, have been disturbing to me.
But for many days, in fact, I believe many weeks.
The Council for the Army is at here patiently and by his actions more than his words attempted to expedite these hearings.
And now, a few moments after the Army's case is closed, despite the strenuous sincere objections of Army Council,
the majority members of this committee, so I will remind now, are responsible for the current operation of the United States Army.
Against the final days, they will have almost third objections of the head Council of the Army,
are deciding to vote, partly in the affirmative, to eliminate one of the three members who are principles in the case that the Army has brought.
In fact, if you want to look at it from the standpoint of the Defense Department, which I again remind the gentleman from the standpoint of the rug and the pain,
it is their responsibility to operate. We are now eliminating two members of the Defense Department. Mr. Walsh agrees to one.
He does not agree to the other. The least that I believe we can do is a committee.
There's a carry on on the basis that the Army Council now wants us to.
I want to thank Mr. Walsh for letting me have this opportunity to support your position.
You may now take your position, Mr. Walsh.
I think Mr. Chairman, that certain senators on the other side of the table have not been as appreciated as the seriousness of the case that is made of against Mr. Carr,
as I am on reading the right hand.
The scene opens with conferences either between Mr. Corn and Mr. Carr and Mr. Stevens.
It follows with conferences between Mr. Corn and Carr and Mr. Adams, in which Mr. Shine is repeatedly discussed,
and in which Mr. Carr, Mr. Corn, makes it an ordinance demands in respect to Mr. Shine.
It is true that Mr. Carr appears to have the role of a strong, silent man.
But sometimes you can be very strong by silence.
Certainly it seems to me that when Mr. Carr erodes the force, Dick says he did do many of you general rams who arranged for the time off for Mr. Shine,
but he must have been going there because he wanted to achieve a result.
And General Rams, testimony which was not denied, was the same both requests of the time off for Shine.
Now I wish to turn to one of some places on the record and read some short stories to you general.
I read first from the record volume 50, page 2573, the testimony of Mr. Adams.
On November 25 at the conclusion of the hearings in New York, I returned to Washington.
I climbed to go by air. I was going to be in the company of Mr. Carr.
We missed our airplane of New York Airfield and went to the New York Pennsylvania Railroad Station and came to Washington together on the train on November 25.
The train trip takes about three hours and 45 minutes.
As I recall now and as I have felt at the time, 31 half of our entire conversation was directed to Shine.
And was filled with Mr. Carr's observations to me, to the effect that for so long as Shine was not satisfactorily assigned,
that effect really was so far as Mr. Cohen was concerned that we were in trouble.
Now that Mr. Adams and Mr. Carr all by themselves on a railroad train and Mr. Carr saying as long as Shine was not satisfactorily assigned, we, the Army, are in trouble.
On page 2593 of the record, Mr. Adams again is justified.
In answer to Mr. Jansson, Mr. Carr was in Washington.
I think Mr. Cohen was in New York.
I had a conversation with Mr. Carr with further reference to Mr. Cohen's attitude on Shine.
And I stated to him that if they would just leave me alone, I was going to South Dakota for a four-day visit with my mother and sister.
And that if they would just let me alone until I got back, I would find a way to speak to the Secretary of the Army between Christmas and New Year and determine where Shine was going to go.
I did not guarantee that they would like what the decision was, but I said I will get an answer.
So we will know where he is going. If you will just leave me alone for the next six days.
On the 19th of December, I went to Sioux Falls South Dakota by air.
On the 20th of December, I received a long distance call from Mr. Carr in which the subject on the 20th of December and on the 23rd of December, while I was in Sioux Falls South Dakota.
I received long distance calls from Mr. Carr. On one, and I think on both of the occasions, the principal subject of the call seemed to me to be Shine.
And I stated that I had told them that if they were just wait until between Christmas and New Year, I would try to find out what was going to happen to Shine.
Mr. Jankin, you say that in one or two calls the subject seemed to be Shine?
Was there not Shine just got by Mr. Carr along distance while you were visiting your mother in Sioux Falls South Dakota?
Mr. Raddick. It was. And as I say, the principal purpose of one of the calls that I recall was Shine.
My recollection is that's both call alluded to Shine. And on page 2600 of the records, Mr. Adams is testifying again.
I telephone my wife on the afternoon of the 9th of January to tell us the weather was bad. This is in reference to Mr. Adams being an amateur.
It was snowing. And it didn't look as though I would get back to Washington, that day as I had fun.
She told me she had received a telephone call from a woman who stated that Senator McCarthy and Mr. Carr were anxious to get in touch with me.
And that she had indicated to them that she didn't know where I was. I wasn't particularly anxious to receive the call because I felt I knew what it would be about.
Nevertheless, I told her to tell Mr. Carr where I was. And I received a telephone call from Mr. Carr about three o'clock or at three o'clock in the afternoon of January 9th.
The subjects which we discussed were two. One they called, which he wished to get the army to concur in for inclusion in the annual report of the committee. And the problem concerned with five of Shine.
He told me with reference to Shine that Shine had gone to New York on leave for the weekend and had been advised that he had to return on Saturday night to be available for K.P. Sunday's the next day.
He indicated to me that Cohn was very anxious to get hold of the about it and wanted to talk to the about it and wanted to know what I could do about it.
Mr. Carr wanted to know if there was anything I could do about it. I protested to Mr. Carr. I tried to put him off by saying that I was helpless in Amherst, but I couldn't do anything when I wasn't in the Pentagon.
I asked him if he wouldn't be first telling Mr. Cohn where I was. Mr. Cohn was in New York. I was in Amherst. The Mr. Carr was in Washington. If he wouldn't tell Mr. if he wouldn't be first telling Mr. Cohn where I was.
Long enough to let me complete checking out of the hotel, which I was then in the process of doing. I did not want to call him to give him a prohibition telling no you may not tell a phone where I am because I didn't want to be in the position of refusing to receive a phone call from a committee staff member.
However, I did hope to abide the call because I was sure what it would be about. Mr. Carr's call with C was terminated shortly thereafter and in a few moments I received another telephone call.
I picked up the phone and heard Mr. Cohn's voice on the other end. I said hello. I heard him say hello John. Something so that effect and I very carefully put down the receiver.
And again for Mr. Adam's testimony finally on the first of March I agreed that I would come up and have lunch with him on the following day, which was the first of March.
He thought it would be better if we didn't have it here in this building. I think Mr. Cohn was in town. So we agreed that we would go to lunch with the method of stealing across the street and we did have lunch together on that day.
On that occasion, Mr. Carr said to me that he was making progress. He didn't say how it through what means and affecting us.
In improving and reducing the democratic fire against the committee, that was about the substance of it.
The great part of the lunch was given over to conversations with reference to shine and which Mr. Carr stated to me as he had on numerous other occasions.
But he thought that I should understand that as long as the assignment of shine was not satisfactory to Mr. Cohn that the Army was in more continued trouble.
I have other portions of the record mark. It takes too long to reach. Those that I have read to you are acts of Cohn alone. A car alone.
Mr. Carr faced calls for gentle Orion and Lieutenant Blount at Fort Dixon Respected Time offer shine.
Most importantly, he wrote six of the 11 memorandum which were released by Senator McCarthy to the case and which will be an evidence in this case.
These memorandum contain accusations against evens and addents. They set up the hostage charge for the first time. Yes, that was March 11th.
They set up the blackmail charge for the first time. These accusations stand in the record or will stand when introduced in cold tight.
No one sitting in this chair can let them go on challenge. They must be testified to by Mr. Carr under oath and I must have the chance to cross examine.
It is an evidence that Mr. Carr requested Adams to work with the Colchie and you remember Mr. Adams testimony on that.
Most importantly, Mr. Carr was as I understand it. Mr. Shine's immediate support. He is the one who can tell us what shine was doing on weekends and on the nights that he was off the court day.
He is the one that can tell us what committee work was so essential that this man had done have these extraordinary excuses from the day that he had.
It is as I had indicated to Mr. Bacon essential that we have Mr. Carr as a witness in this case.
I do not want anyone in this room or anyone that hears my voice to think I could bear a grudge against the man that I have never yet actually met.
I have heard Senator McCarthy say that the army wants his neck and wants his job. Mr. Chauvin, I would not know what this position to make a visa the neck or the job is that we are offering to him.
I want to try this case and bring the facts out for him. Mr. Jenkins, my friend, I think I am looking at you more than anyone else.
I have not the power to keep Mr. Carr in the case as a principal if this both goes as it seems somewhat indicated it will.
As long as Mr. Jenkins, however, as I have your promise that Mr. Carr will be called so that I can examine him on these great charges that he made in his memorandum and on all the other matters where he is so important they witness whether he helps me or hurts me.
I want him as a witness and so Mr. Chauvin, I say first you ought not to dismiss him if you were in the area of directed verdicts and we rested on this alone.
It seems to me as a lawyer they would have to be a verdict for the army on what I have read. But whatever you do with him apart, as a part, I cling to Mr. Jenkins as a witness.
Thank you.